Subject: Re: iChat Rendezvous protocol

From: Jens Alfke <email@hidden>

Date: Fri, 30 Jan 2004 09:53:31 -0800



On Jan 30, 2004, at 8:34 AM, Pelle Johansson wrote:

> Others can probably give a better answer but last I heard it's
> actually binhexed xml, so you can probably figure out much of it by
> yourself (xml being a text protocol).

That's the old and deprecated iChat 1.0 presence information (stored in
the TXT record).  It's a very unfortunate format that appeared as a
result of a last-minute change from a custom multicast protocol to
mDNS. I don't encourage anyone to try to decipher that gunk; it's not
even XML, it's a binary payload that's base64'd.

iChat 2.0 (aka AV) uses a much more standard format for presence data.
The name of the service is "presence" and the TXT record contains a
property list as specified in the relevant mDNS spec. The properties
should be pretty self-explanatory. (I have some docs but I'd probably
have to go through a bunch of bureaucratic hoops to get them
published.)

(OK, the buddy-picture stuff probably deserves some explanation. The
presence prop-list contains a 'phsh' property which is an SHA-1 hash of
the raw JPEG data of the user's current buddy picture. The picture data
itself is stored in the service's NUL record. A client should (sorry,
SHOULD) watch for a change in a service's 'phsh' property, check its
local icon cache for a matching icon file, and if there is no such file
it can use normal DNS APIs to fetch the NUL record. The client MUST
cache icons for some reasonable period, to avoid unnecessary requests
for NUL records.)

The actual IM session is a peer-to-peer TCP connection using a subset
of the Jabber protocol. The login phase is skipped entirely. IMs are
sent in <message> elements. No <presence> elements are used, since
presence is handled out-of-band by mDNS.
_____________________________________
Jens  iChat  Apple Computer

